we talked a lot about this ron
deal you're feeling very good
about that
I want to talk about you you
spoke with the VFW started today
for our veterans boy rough ride
for the veterans recently this
terrible attack in in Tennessee
heartbreaking and and and also
though a systemic issue and I
know that that you raise it with
the the VA and health care
well you know the situation with
the VA has always been
we make a promise but too often
under resources right so that it
is my firm belief we have a
sacred duty to these guys and
gals that when they have served
us as bravely as they have when
they come home
we're supposed to be there for
but when you look at the budget
historically it's been
short-changed it was worse
during the Vietnam era when
those guys came back
we've been able to
systematically add additional
resources to the VA but you
still have this massive
structure with millions of
people being served and what
we're having to do is just
systematically work through some
of the challenges of a big
freaky bureaucracy
you know when we had that
problem with waiting list folks
were still taking appts down on
paper and when you've got
millions of people who are
needing services
it just doesn't work anymore so
we've now been able to cut down
on waiting times reduce the
backlog for disability claims by
about eighty percent but we also
have more and more people coming
in are we allowed folks who had
symptoms of Aden orange for the
first time to be able to make
claims that added a couple
hundred thousand people as we
end to Wars folks come back so
we actually now have about 2.7
million more veterans seeking
services and if the if the
amount of resources doesn't
change then they get short
changed
so we've got to do efficiency
work on the VA but we also have
Congress to get out from under
this sequester this this idea
that we just make blanket budget
cuts that somehow that's going
to improve our economy and that
very same folks who are going to
cut services are the first ones
than to say why is it that folks
have waiting times along
so it's a the waiting time issue
to be fair as it happened far
before the sequester and maybe a
bit brings up sort of a larger
issue which is you know given
ok there is there is a party
that believes that government
does not have as larger role to
play in our lives as the party
that that you are with right
which means it's incumbent maybe
upon that party the one that you
are with to demonstrate how that
will work in the 21st century
how can government be the agile
and with the VA
it seems to speak to a larger
issue you came into office in
2009 explicitly saying this is
unacceptable . they spent a
billion dollars trying to get
interoperability between those
DoD and VA right
couldn't do it after a five
years went back and said let's
do it separately more money
that didn't work now they're
back the VA's got a pretty good
system
waiting for DoD they're not even
gone out yet been 11 billion
dollar contract yet right
so you're running for office I'm
really boy you know everything
you know where everybody is
and emails so so that so this is
what happens that I think
there's a couple things i'll say
number one government works
better now than it probably ever
has given what we ask it to do
ok and across agencies
there have been all kinds of
reforms and improvements and
people their work hard and they
care about this stuff deeply but
what is true is if you have a
government that was built on
1930 models and it's not updated
for decades
then there's going to be a gap
in terms of what it is doing now
relative to what some other
folks do
and
I t is probably the biggest
example of that we're having to
completely redesign how the
government purchases IT services
how it does digital from soup to
nuts and part of it is that the
way that it's historically been
set up is that you have these
specifications that are this
thick when i'm on a campaign and
i'm setting up my internet
operations night I got four guys
and t-shirts in a room and
they're figuring out how do we
do this thing and that's not how
the government set up so it's
it's slow and it doesn't
function properly
you asked me what I want to do
over the next 18 months a lot of
this stuff does not require
Congress at work requires us
bearing down and figuring out
how it is that we can rebat
these systems and we've done it
successfully
right in certain areas but when
you got two million employees
then they're going to be places
where this slips but that I
think to some extent that's
that's the point is you got two
million employees and you want
this to be agile the VA system
right for this is you can't find
a better issue politically
yeah you can't find it but you
you'll find almost unanimous
agreement right that we have
failed
these veterans and unanimous
agreement that we need to do
better yet seven years into it
we have not been able to
demonstrate the agility a little
bit of know but don't know not
waiting times home jack up that
they don't back up but he built
the reason they're going back up
as I just told you got 2.7
million new folks coming in that
when you don't know a lot of war
was oh well . they are going to
have three people
hold on a second here here's
here's the here's the general .
yeah we asked our government to
do things that other folks don't
want to do because you can't
make money at it because it's
not profitable and so we want
government to help make sure
that kids get opportunity and
they have to reach the toughest
to reach kids the kids that the
private schools generally screen
out
we want to make sure that we are
serving our veterans including
the oldest poorest veterans
there's not a lot of money in
doing that
and so a lot of times people
will say well why isn't this
happening as quick as fast right
if we're under resourcing our
government and not staffing it
the way it needs to be to do
everything that's done then we
shouldn't be surprised that
they're going to be gaps when i
came into office my measure was
can we make stuff a lot better
than it has been
and it is don't let perfect be
the enemy of good you know
well part of the part of the
problem is i think that you know
we have a tendency to i'll give
you an example when there was a
problem with the IRS
everybody jumped including you
what happened the IRA look look
you got this you got this back
office and and they're going
after the Tea Party
well it turned out no Congress
had passed a crummy law that
didn't give people guidance in
terms of what it was they were
trying to do they did it poorly
and stupidly but that becomes
but but but you really do have
only a year let me I don't
believe but throwing it out no
matter what we have done is
important but the truth of the
matter is is that there was not
some big conspiracy there they
were trying to sort out these
conflicting demands
you don't want all this money
pouring through non-for-profits
but you also want to make sure
that everybody is being treated
fairly
now the real scandal around the
IRS right now is that it has
been so poorly funded that they
can go ever they can go after
these but that we cannot go
after these folks who are
deliberately avoiding tax
payments and the real scandal is
a tax code where multinationals
can pay zero taxes making
massive profits
so we tend to get distracted by
the fact that there are going to
be elements because government
is a human enterprise where
somebody somewhere is screwing
up at any given time because
it's a huge system overall it
works really well to help a lot
of people
what is scandalous is the fact
that we are not making as much
progress as we should on the
basic things that
we know government should be
doing rebuilding our
infrastructure I rebuilding our
roads rebuilding our ports
setting up a smarter a system
for distributing energy making
sure that we're investing in
early childhood education and so
you're absolutely right that
part of my job for the last
seven years and part of my job
over these last that this last
year coming up is to continually
improve and make sure the
government is functioning as
well as it could
but you can't use that as an
excuse for the big structural
problems that we're facing right
now that are not being addressed
typically those have to do with
the fact that the political
system is broken as opposed to
because that god is that where
that
see that's what I want to get to
is that that vision of what 21st
century government looks like
outside of the polymerization of
it
how do you govern and do the
services that you're talking
about
whilst being in that situation
and and if it's four guys in a
t-shirt
isn't there an executive action
that can that that can cut
through
so here's what we did yes and
the commander in chief after the
healthcare.gov fiasco
we brought in an entire team of
guys basically volunteering
their own time from google
facebook right guys in t-shirts
they're not wearing t-shirts now
they they are dressing up a
little bit probably not that
well understood and and we have
created what we're calling the
u.s. digital services and we're
basically getting guys to rotate
in for a year or two years and
we're just putting them on a
whole bunch of these problems
whether it's how do we make and
an SBA loan easier to get how do
we make sure that you know this
agency is more customer friendly
how do we make sure that people
can go to one website and send a
16 to find out the information
they need so these guys are
spreading out throughout the
government and they are in fact
systematically chipping away at
a lot of these problems and i
think we will be by the time i
leave here we're going to be
able to say that government is
working much better right much
more efficiently much more
customer friendly than when i
came into office
it's interesting it frustrates
you because I can tell yes we're
talking you're having a nice
time you talking about the Iran
deal when we talk about things
that does work Freddy gets
frustrating to me horse because
you feel like it's we're
amplifying things out of
proportion and I might agree
with that i met his son certain
issues and that is absolutely
true that you are because the VA
though I i would why we're not
going to an exception look that
he added that the issue with the
VA is every single at if there's
one veteran who's not getting
the services they need
right then were failing that
better and that's absolutely
critical
but let's take something like
homeless homelessness among
veterans and so we cut that by a
third no question now I've still
got two thirds of these folks
that we've got to make sure have
proper housing because if they
fought for us they should be
able to find a home here in the
United States of America and you
but for this goes to ya
different for this most of the
larger . you ask me how I'm
doing and how am I feeling and
senioritis and you know the am I
feeling pretty good right now
one of the things I'm proud of
and and this is not just me this
is our entire team right
is we have looked at a whole
slew of problems when we came
into office and we've said where
can we advance the ball down the
field
each and every time in across
the board and we don't score a
touchdown every time but we move
the ball forward
do you feel like you've hit the
metrics that you wanted to hit
even within you're always going
to fall short because if you if
you're if you're hitting their
marks that means you didn't get
them high enough
right so on health care am I
being unreasonable to my being
unfair in in suggesting that
that in this one instance
yeah government failed to
address a problem in an
appropriate time frame failed to
do it I i think you are being
entirely fair that the VA has
not done what it needs to do in
terms of our veterans
ok that is something that built
up over 50 years and the
question then becomes whose
fault
no I don't know no i don't know
i would look quite know that the
question is how do we set the
right
benchmarks so that we know we're
making progress and we're moving
in the right direction and
that's true on all this stuff
look when we passed health care
there was a lot of complaints
about you know what a
single-payer plan would be
better or we need a public
option or their whole range of
possibilities and a lot of those
suggestions I agreed with but
what I knew was given the legacy
systems that were inheriting
given the politics of this
country given that people are
always afraid of something new
given obstruction and resistant
from the other side for us to
get this done and suddenly have
60 million people who have
health care that didn't have it
before and a hundred plus
million people who know that if
they lose their job tomorrow
they can still get home
care even if they've got a
pre-existing condition and
knowing that a whole bunch of
young people suddenly are able
to get health care under their
parents plan
I'll take that and you know
going back to the Iran deal
no there there are people who
strayed well on Iran
why didn't you just get them to
completely eliminate all
vestiges of any nuclear program
that they have
well here's the reason the
reason as a there's no evidence
that they would ever do that be
the reason we got them to the
tables because we had countries
like China and Russia
even with all the disagreements
that we had we were able to
organize them to focus making
sure they didn't have a bomb and
to keep that international
coalition together and sanctions
together
what that meant was we had to
take some consideration into
Iran's saving face right as they
move forward on this deal as
long as we knew they weren't
going to get a bomb and I guess
what I'm saying John is is that
it's not your it's not your job
to focus on what three quarters
below firts half a loaf that we
get your job is to point out
what we still haven't gotten and
that's why our democracy works
is because we're constantly
hungry to keep on making
improvements
you can really go with this
whole sandwich analogy for sure
but what is but but we can't
lose sight of why I guess what i
do fight against ya is I feel it
no I don't know the mood dunno
about that
here here's here's what I fight
against yes what I fight against
is that cynicism
that's that and it don't know
i'm not saying more of a butt
but the cynicism that is fed by
this notion that government
doesn't get stuff done and the
truth of the matter is that
whether it's our military or all
kinds of public servants in the
VA or in egg or in all the
agencies that work with us right
every single day there's a bunch
of stuff that is getting done
that is really important and
helps a lot of people and if
those of us who believe that
government have summer in the
interest of fairness or
objectivity or
heavy don't acknowledge and
focus on the enormous success
but also the fact that yes
there's a human Enterprise we
are going to be some trade-offs
in there is going to be somebody
somewhere screwing up at some
point when problems are
identified they've got to be
fixed
sometimes they won't get fixed
as fast as they should if we
lose sight of that
then we're feeding into this
narrative that basically says
there's nothing we can do
and then what you get are you
will protest movements on the
left or the right
I mean to some degree of the Tea
Party is an expression of
frustration
they see a bunch of stuff going
on that they don't understand
they feel threatened by and then
they they react
including me you make it sound
like bunnies
yeah they had a car so so so I
just a minor one the one thing
that I feels deeply about and
this is something like I'll feel
deeply about what I leave Leave
leave government is stuff gets
better if we work at it and we
stay focused on where we're
going
it doesn't immediately get all
solved at and I warned against
this when I was running for
office because everybody at the
whole posters in the best and
that everybody is feeling like
they made me make those you may
already know know what to have
like I don't know yeah no I uh
huh I like don't you came from
you
it was a nice but what I'm
saying is that the if you look
at what I said at the time I
said this is going to be an
ongoing project and it's a
project of citizens
it's not just fix it it's how do
we work together to get things
done and it will be in perfect
yes all right over time is it
better and here's the thing i
can say John yeah I can say this
unequivocally the VA is better
now than when I came into office
it is better now than when I
came into office government
works better than when i came
into office the economy by every
metric is better than when i
came into office and so the
reason I can sleep at night and
tries to myself you know what
it's not now
am I satisfied with it no and
should voters be satisfied with
it absolutely not because
otherwise you know if we get
complacent lazy than stuff
doesn't happen
no that's what I that that's
totally what i was saying that's
what you want
you and me we're right there can
I tell you something you can I
have no idea where we are
commercial wise i'm just gonna
I'm gonna I'm gonna throw to
commercial here's a here's what
we'll do we'll throw to
commercial
we'll come back and we'll talk
more this time we'll talk a
little about something but when
you want to talk about next
I'll leave it up to you okay the
over the subject matter is about
will write back more on
President Obama